# Resources

<details initial-open="true">

<summary>Responsible Use Guidelines</summary>

**Interpretation and Decision-Making:** While Pyxis provides powerful insights for decision-making, users must exercise caution in its application. The tool enables what-if scenario analyses using simplifying assumptions; however, these scenarios should not be directly translated into decisions without appropriate validation by relevant subject matter experts. ​

**Governance and Approval:** Scenarios generated by or with the help of Pyxis are not considered governed or approved decisions. Any scenario intended for decision-making must be appropriately reviewed by GSK’s technical and financial governance boards, (incl. DRB, FRC and PIB\*) before being considered governed or approved.​

**Communication:** Scenarios generated by Pyxis should be communicated to a very small, authorized group of individuals; clearly labelled as scenarios and with the primary intent to refine potential choices and further investigate the feasibility and implications of such scenarios. External communication of insights derived from the tool is prohibited.​

**Data Quality and Model Assumptions:** The accuracy and reliability of Pyxis depends on high-quality input data and robust model assumptions. Data is sourced from Enrich and users must be aware that simplifying assumptions are designed to help simulate potential impacts but should not be mistaken for governed or approved forecasts. ​

Simplifying assumptions which may impact the accuracy of predictions:

- When you create a portfolio, the aggregated costs, sales, and valuations are based on the selected projects only. All costs from excluded projects are immediately removed from the forecast. In reality, often these costs are committed and can’t be clawed back, how much is incurred depends on specific contracts and should be verified by R&D Finance.
- Finance’s estimates for costs, sales, etc. are estimates. For this version of Pyxis we don’t consider the uncertainty in these but just take them at face value. All probabilistic outputs are based on the uncertainty of success/failure outcomes of different projects at each phase, but not on the uncertainty of their financial data.
- The optimiser is a linear optimiser so any non-linear functions are optimised via approximations. For this version of Pyxis this only affects ROI.

</details>

<details>

<summary>
How to Use The Portfolio Simulator
</summary>

To get to know the Portfolio Simulator, you can take a virtual tour through the tool!

[start-tour](start-tour)

If you have questions about how to use Pyxis that are not addressed in the tour, please get in touch via our [Pyxis Teams Channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3A8PBPfHoN6gkl_T-z_6OkD_XIbI4b76OmHHHXH7WZUog1%40thread.tacv2/General?groupId=656b6305-e891-4675-853e-71ac8fe4a9b7&tenantId=63982aff-fb6c-4c22-973b-70e4acfb63e6).

</details>

<details>

<summary>
FAQ
</summary>

**Where does the data come from?** Data is sourced from the latest governed snapshot in Enrich (GSKs project valuation software). Where snapshots have missing data (such as milestone dates), these have been added from IRM or from consultation with SMEs in R&D Finance and/or Portfolio & Decision Sciences.

**Can Pyxis be used for governance?** Scenarios generated by, or with the help of, Pyxis may be used to provide insights and context for governance decisions. All project data currently used in Pyxis has been governed, however, any scenario intended for decision-making should be verified by SMEs.

**Are the outputs of Pyxis considered governed?** No. Scenarios generated by, or with the help of, Pyxis are not considered governed or approved decisions. Any scenario intended for decision-making should be verified by SMEs and must be appropriately reviewed by GSKs technical and financial governance boards, (incl. DRB, FRC and PIB\*) before being considered governed or approved.

**Is the data up to date?** The data is derived from the latest governed snapshot in Enrich, in line with those used for May dPR. Any changes to costs, sales forecast, PTRS, or timelines since governance will not be reflected in Pyxis. If you would like project-level information to be updated, please reach out to the Portfolio Finance Team.

**Can we request new features to be added?** Yes, all feedback and feature requests are welcome. Please fill in the [Feature Request Form](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=_yqYY2z7IkyXO3DkrPtj5udvY_7mb0NDmCsCyDSAdRZUMENPV1Y2MDRXTFFYUFI2NUxDRU5ZMldSRC4u) if you would like us to improve an existing feature or add a new feature.

**What are the key limitations of the tool I need to be aware of?** Pyxis enables what-if scenario analyses using simplifying assumptions; however, these scenarios should not be directly translated into decisions without appropriate validation by relevant subject matter experts. The accuracy and reliability of Pyxis depends on high-quality input data and robust model assumptions. Data is sourced from Enrich and users must be aware that simplifying assumptions are designed to help simulate potential impacts but should not be mistaken for governed or approved forecasts.

Simplifying assumptions which may impact the accuracy of predictions:

- When you create a new portfolio to analyse, the aggregated costs, sales, and valuations are based on the selected projects only. All costs from excluded projects are immediately removed from the forecast. In reality, often these costs are committed and can’t be clawed back, how much is incurred depends on specific contracts and should be verified by R&D Finance.
- Finance’s estimates for costs, sales, etc. are estimates. For this version of Pyxis we don’t consider the uncertainty in these but just take them at face value. All probabilistic outputs are based on the uncertainty of success/failure outcomes of different projects at each phase, but not on the uncertainty of their financial data.
- The optimiser in The Portfolio Simulator is a linear optimiser so any non-linear functions are optimised via approximations. For version Pyxis v1.0.0, this only affects ROI. Please see the Investment Game for agents that use non-linear optimisation, however constrained to optimising eNPV only.

**I have noticed a bug in the app. How can I report it?** If you have noticed a bug in the app, we apologise for the inconvenience. Please use the [Bug Reporting Form](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=_yqYY2z7IkyXO3DkrPtj5udvY_7mb0NDmCsCyDSAdRZUQUZOVkQ1MjBNQVdNOVBJNFhUVEJCUjQ5Ny4u) to report it and our team will address it in the shortest possible timeframe.

**Why don’t I have access to the full R&D portfolio data?** Pyxis has a tiered access system. You may have access to all data, or to only a specific therapeutic area, depending on your role. All other users will have access to some dummy data.

**Can I share the output of this tool with my colleagues?** The data in this tool is CSI so please follow CSI rules and guidelines. Scenarios generated by Pyxis should be communicated to a very small, authorized group of individuals; clearly labelled as scenarios and with the primary intent to refine potential choices and further investigate the feasibility and implications of such scenarios. If you wish to export a portfolio, you can copy the list of project codes from the portfolio detail view. Please only share data with others who also have permission to view it. External communication of insights derived from the tool is prohibited.

**What does publishing a portfolio do?** Publishing a portfolio makes it visible to other users with appropriate access controls.

**Who can see my published portfolio?** All other users who have the same level of access as you or higher can see your published portfolios. For example, users with access to Oncology data only will only be able to see published portfolios of other Oncology users. They will not be able to see published portfolios of other TA users, or full R&D portfolios. Users with access to full R&D data will be able to view all published TA specific portfolios, as well as full R&D portfolios.

**If I delete or unpublish a published portfolio, will it be removed from other users’ libraries?** Yes. Deleting or unpublishing a portfolio will remove it from other users’ libraries.

**I am not sure what a particular plot represents. Where can I find more information?** Each plot has an info button next to it providing extra information about what it represents. If you have further questions, please contact the Pyxis team by sending a message to the [Pyxis Teams Channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3A8PBPfHoN6gkl_T-z_6OkD_XIbI4b76OmHHHXH7WZUog1%40thread.tacv2/General?groupId=656b6305-e891-4675-853e-71ac8fe4a9b7&tenantId=63982aff-fb6c-4c22-973b-70e4acfb63e6)

**Can I include risk aversion as an input in the Optimiser?** Yes, you can encode a measure of risk in the optimiser via the standard deviation of NPV. This value represents the uncertainty in the outcome of NPV of a portfolio. 95% of outcomes lie within this value’s distance from the eNPV. If you need help selecting a limit on the standard deviation of NPV, please explore the Efficiency Frontier and the NPV distribution plots of different portfolios. These will give you an idea of what values represent more or less risk.

In future versions of Pyxis, we will explore more ways of encoding risk. If you have any suggestions for how we might improve this feature, please use the [Feature Request Form](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=_yqYY2z7IkyXO3DkrPtj5udvY_7mb0NDmCsCyDSAdRZUMENPV1Y2MDRXTFFYUFI2NUxDRU5ZMldSRC4u) to let us know.

**What are custom projects?** Custom projects allow you to add a new project to your portfolio based on a “bucket valuation” methodology, using simplifying assumptions of cost phasing and sales curves.

By default, custom projects are pre-populated with benchmark data for Cycle Time, PTRS, and Cost by phase. These benchmarks represent industry median data for projects within each TA based data from CMR (RI and Oncology) or KMR (Vaccines).

Peak Year Sales (PYS) information is derived from all assets within each therapeutic that were launched by GSKs peer set between 2014-2023. You can toggle between Mean, Median, and Lower and Upper Quartile.

All presets can be customised to create a project of your own.

**What are the pre-populated BD Deals?** These BD deals have been curated using AI by our team in China. They represent assets that are potentially available for licensing agreements with Chinese companies. Valuations have been estimated using the custom project functionality described above, using deal comparables where available. All information and meta-data have been sourced through AI search and have not been verified by BD.

Please note that this functionality is a work in progress and will be reviewed and enhanced with BD for future version.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Support</summary>

Further support can be found in the Pyxis Teams Channel, where you can ask additional questions, report issues and request new features to be added.

</details>
